all right what is up everybody welcome
to a beta episode of health theory I've
got some amazing people joining me who
will no doubt be back when we launched
this boy officially but I will let each
of them introduce themselves we have
very limited time so bear with us but
starting over here with a dear dear dear
friend of mine mr. Yemeni may sit tell
us a little bit about yourself
Tom thank you
rescue us from the modern day diet nice
and I will say eat your microphone
you're gonna want to get that closer
Forsch ways that goes for all of you
guys there it is all right you just yank
that back way all right go for it next
up yeah thanks Tom it's my name's Brian
Lowry president and co-founder of the
Applied Sciences Performance Institute
in Tampa we just published the ketogenic
5 on really our goal is to change lives
through science innovation that's a very
similar everyone is really to help
people change in the spiralizer right i
Jacob Wilson also with Ryan Murray
co-founder of applied science and
Performance Institute and like he said
change life through science and
innovation but also take all that
information that was so difficult before
and science that only scientists could
understand and make it essentially
easily digestible to the public nice I
love it
and so we obviously go back in fact all
three of us connected through quest
Yamane I go back years and years and
then met you guys love what you're doing
super active socially which is awesome
and definitely anybody out there by the
way you're gonna want to follow these
guys all three of them are doing really
really cool stuff on their socials and
we'll get you their handles here before
we go in fact they may already be on
screen can anybody confirm that if
they're not hopefully they will be in
the very near future but guys talk to me
a little bit about the ketogenic Bible
and then yemenis gonna tell us why he's
been ketogenic for as long as he has but
honestly I was surprised that you guys
wrote the ketogenic Bible I didn't think
of you as being overly keto versus just
sort of the broad spectrum I in fact can
I confess I think if you guys is
bodybuilding guys
well you know the thing is like our
research we really address we have done
a lot of research with like a lot of
people don't know if we've done a lot of
research in like longevity and
anti-aging and preventing age-related
muscle loss as my dissertation was
really centered around that and the part
that the public really sees is more like
the muscle building stuff like that but
all that training component and dieting
we knew could be applied to longevity
and health and then of course we came
across ketogenic diet II the biggest
thing is in our field everyone said you
couldn't change your body composition
optimally perform optimally Wallen a
ketogenic diet and are they thinking
mostly muscle I'm gonna call
like yes I went keto for nine Melancon
in a different way than you
think
I went keto for nine months in my
physique was garbage I felt amazing
cognitively I was great inflammation was
essentially at zero but my muscles felt
squidgy mm-hmm well that's the thing so
everyone was saying that and saying it
so we started doing the research on it
now we found is that the adaptation
period takes time but once you actually
fully adapt those muscle carb sores come
fully back so where you don't even need
like to consume carbohydrates to have a
full tank of carbohydrates in your
muscle so we actually found once you
adapt you actually can make the same
gains from a molecular standpoint as
well as like a whole body standpoint for
our strength and even power and things
of that nature
god is tempting to go in on molecular
but uh hold on a second yeah me why I
had gotten so hardcore about ketosis
I mean you switched your name up got
like two years ago or something - keto
head thanks to your your suggestion
actually I am trying to figure out how
to better
I don't know position my Instagram
account and you said just call keto has
a switch for Dylan and I changed the
name and like 300 followers later it was
a good idea but why am i so big on the
ketogenic diet i I've spent the better
part of my life trying to figure out how
to manipulate my nutrition to benefit
from it whether its body composition
that is feeling better and like you I
had many years of tons of inflammation
causing me to have chronic joint pain
that I you know
went to multiple doctors to try to
figure out like what's happening to me
I'm in my 30s I shouldn't be feeling
this crappy my joy should be hurting
this much and I actually came to the
conclusion that I okay I'm just getting
old and I lifted weights for so many
years that I've just kind of wrecked my
body and I'm just gonna have to live
with this
long story short at Qwest when we kind
of turned everything upside down and
kind of moved away from thinking of
nutrition there's just high protein low
carbs and thinking about the role that
fad plays in nutrition and then actually
getting into a well designed ketogenic
diet and then seeing all my pain go away
like all the inflammation all my joint
pains like all that completely went away
and so like you I was like okay I don't
want to ever get off the ketogenic diet
not only am I not in pain but my
appetite is better regulated I'm a lot
leaner it's a lot easier to stay lean
what I have to do a ton of cardio so
that's why just like okay this is a no
brainer this is easy for me I'm getting
a lot of really good results but like
you I did it for a straight year and I
started to notice some muscle loss and
my performance in the gym started to
suffer a bit so that's when I kind of
got into a little bit more of cyclical
ketogenic diet in where I'll go into
full Kito's ketogenic diet for four
weeks out of the year try to recall the
benefits that come from the health
components of that and then the rest of
the time
um what I'll call on a on a very low
carb high fat diet not spending a whole
lot of time thing about protein I might
be going over my protein it might be
knocking me out of ketosis
but because I'm on a very low carb diet
most of the time makes it very easy to
switch back into ketosis or whenever I
need to
alright so by the way anybody that has
watched me for a while you guys know I'm
not religious about any of this stuff
like they're a ketogenic diet had a huge
impact on me I will say literally that
it saved my wife's life but man if you
guys either have had a contrary
experience or you just have questions
about this stuff submit them now Chase
is gonna make sure that we get any and
all of your questions and then gents
while we wait for those questions to
come in how long does that ketogenic
adaptation response to take nine months
seems like a long-ass time to me and
at nine months not only was I freakishly
consistent on my diet I don't cheat
I work out not always five days a week
but almost always and he is freakishly
strict remember he was eating like egg
yolks and butter and like like hardcore
keto more than one ratio I did four to
one for a three-week period which is a
nightmare so I'm not even
talking about that like and I didn't
know how to do it so I had heat a flu in
the extreme so and heat up was the topic
for another day but so even set that
aside
I was two-to-one probably by the time
you factor in weekends I was waiting for
that to happen by the time you factor in
the weekends it probably was closer to
like even one point five to one point
seven to one just because I would take
my calories up of things like hamburger
and stuff like that on the weekends but
during the week five days a week
religious two-to-one yeah I mean
adaptations differ for everyone
some people adapt very rapidly and some
people takes a lot longer for them to
adapt what I will say is that like and
it always depends on like your lifestyle
you're active you are working out a lot
someone who's sedentary might not even
notice it
whereas someone who's athletic it may
take longer
one of the things definitely would
recommend like during that period for
the muscle is like even if someone's
going like hardcore four to one that two
days a week they're kind of doing like a
protein up and we talked about that with
Yemeni earlier I think that's key for
games maintaining muscle because like
the four to one I know it's personally I
do I lose muscle pretty rapidly and I
suppose before we go too far can you
explain two to one four to one what does
that mean yeah so that's basically like
either the grams of that over the they
call it the ketogenic over the anti
ketogenic factors ketogenic being
fastness anti ketogenic factors meaning
carbs and they classify protein as
purely anti ketogenic stuff for debate
but fat so your grams of fat over your
grams of carbohydrates plus protein so
that would be four to one if it's four
times the amount of fat over
carbohydrates and protein
or calories of fat you would have one
calorie of protein and carbs combined
correct that's what that would mean so
that's actually difficult to achieve a
four to one ratio it's very difficult
very difficult and we find that that
everything - I thought and we talked at
first time I met you you were talking
about fasting and like intermittent
fasting
I find that ketogenic diet is a lot
easier with fasting and air minute
fasting doing intermittent eating yeah
we don't call it anything fasting let me
tell you right now on impact Theory my
goodness like we call a spade a spade so
I just cannot be a part of the trigger
culture so anyway intermittent fasting
and eating whatever like floats your
boat yeah that from a fat loss
perspective this is the one thing about
a keto diet that you you literally it's
like the matrix
you can't tell somebody what the matrix
is they have to experience it for
themselves
you cannot tell somebody how keto
changes your relationship to hunger
until they've done it and that was
probably the biggest change in my life
was I think about food essentially
constantly right and I've got like my
identity is all about discipline and
being able to not eat despite the fact
that I want to being able to eat towards
a goal right but and I did that for two
years I didn't I didn't I did basically
rabbit starvation okay so my protein was
ultra high my fat was ultra low my carbs
were ultra low and I was losing fat hand
over fist it was awesome but emotionally
it was devastating and I was just I was
just hung crippled by hunger and you
guys know Mike and Ron so Mike and Ron
back at our tech company when I first
started losing the weight probably
Intuit they pulled me aside and said
dude you don't have a personality
anymore
and that's when I realized wow I
probably need to take my calories up a
bit I was existing around 1200 calories
a day I would spike a little bit on the
weekends but that that gets pretty rough
so when you're doing intermittent
fasting on a keto diet and you're
burning ketones it it is so much easier
and my question is why but no insulin
spikes right you're not rolling that
you're not riding that roller coaster of
spiking blood glucose
and insulin and then kind of riding it
down and one of the best ways we kind of
describe it is really putting appetite
back in your control I think
unfortunately we live in a society where
people are like well it's just as easy
as putting the fork down just eat less
and move more and if it were only that
easy we wouldn't have a lot of that
problems that we have today in today's
world but people are like that all the
time imagine living in that constantly
day after day after day of being
starving after eating a full meal and
you just don't have the same appetite
satiety regulation that your friend has
so being able to put the appetite back
in the person's control I think is what
really drives the intermittent fasting
the ketogenic diet and where you see a
lot of success from it nice alright real
fast we have a question in the live feed
here from Facebook in the Epilepsy note
that's from Chase I know that much here
we go Steve Welsh
where does fish fit into the keto diet I
mean fish is especially like a fatty or
fishes particularly like some example
salmon is an excellent fish and if it's
what very well into the ketogenic diet
healthy fats you know better to hit your
ratios then like for example I wouldn't
do like the water packed like tuna it's
gonna be harder oh you have to add a lot
of fat to it but I think things like
salmon are gonna be easier because
they're higher and how would you add fat
to it well it depends on like how you
like your tuna but I would say I add
like mayo to mine really wait doesn't
mayo have weird stuff in it I haven't
eaten Mayo in over a decade what's in
Mayo Mayo is fine on a like keto fine
there's no sugar there's no carb source
it's like a mystery sauce as far as I'm
concerned okay that's it what's that
Aegon really Wow it's like I learned
something new today if that's amazing
all right we have another question here
from Piyush
nany I think I got close on that
do you have a suggestion for bedridden
patients oh do you have a suggestion for
people stuck in a bed and I was
basically I think the question is they
can't exercise right so now what well
here's the thing as far as ketogenic
diets gonna be great for people or a bed
rest because ketones themselves I think
are muscle sparing like we have good
data on that so ketones themselves are
muscle sparing so I think that will help
that that prevent them from losing
muscle while their bed rested I mean
there's a they're like hacks or whatever
that you can do when your bed rested if
they can move somewhat while they're in
bed I would use stuff like blood flow
restriction because they're studies when
it hell is that so blood flow
restriction for example so many where I
take a rat I wrap it around my limb and
it actually causes pulling of blood in
the limb there's studies with people are
bed rest where they wrap the limb it
caused sort of a swelling response to
the leg almost like when you exercise
you get a swelling response and you get
like lower oxygen levels almost like you
get like during exercise and then you
unwrap and you wrap for like a couple
minutes unwrapped and that mimics
exercise and you spare a lot of the
muscle there you're looking at a lot of
stuff like this in NASA and bedrest
models yeah super random question has
nothing to do with ketosis but what do
you guys think is how much can you get
the biological response or give the body
the the input that it's exercising
without actually exercising so think of
it as body produced ketones versus
exogenous ketones oh yeah so like so I'm
on the board of a company called mo Deus
health and it uses vestibular
stimulation to trick the body into
thinking that it's exercising so it up
regulates metabolism
I won't vouch for it I'm just saying
that's the hypothesis it's
interesting it definitely makes you
sleep more and it may help in weight
loss jury's out
but it's that whole concept that there
are things you can do to the body to
make it think that it's going through
exercise so it does it has the
physiological response like this
wrapping notion which I absolutely yeah
so yeah blood flow restriction it's
definitely wait a minute what happens
during exercise you sometimes you get
hypoxia and the muscle you know
especially when your resistance training
you wrap you get that you get a blood
pump you wrap the limb you get that
you know I would say you know without I
would like to say without hardcore
exercising because like if you do blood
flow restriction you walk no one's like
I mean you walk around so as long as
doing normal activities some kind of low
grade movement that people don't think
they're working out makes things a lot
easier and then of course like Ryan
knows a lot of different agents that you
could take that mimic exercise yeah so
like certain things that up regulate
things like AMPK which we know NPK is
important for fat loss berberine is one
of those and just so the audience knows
I have no idea what am PKS yeah
so like if you're out there not knowing
so you feel bad your cells have like a
fuel gauge and when that fuel gauge goes
to empty like you don't have a lot of
fuel it up regulates like fat metabolism
and breaking down fat ampk is at fuel
gauge so when am PK is high it the body
senses hey Low Energy let's crank up fat
metabolism things like berberine
whichever room lowers blood glucose
metformin people have played around with
that form is interesting there there are
some people that I really trust that are
like on the low like I'm taking that for
now it's like what the like what's
going on with metformin for but
berberine like you know I can you can do
a quick blood test is that over the
counter like what the hell I don't worry
no brain is you can be met Foreman's
prescription yeah
Marines over the counter yeah yeah yeah
but I've tested like cheat day with and
without berberine big difference in
glucose bike really yeah yeah so listen
if we made exercise as simple as we can
make it like Ryan said think phil gage
tank full all the time why should the
muscle adapt why should your tissues no
reason empty the tank oh I can't use
carbohydrates and more my tanks empty
and so now I need to increase things
like mitochondria which basically is
what we burn fat we need to use other
fuel sources out of this fuel I'm gonna
increase mitochondria mimicking
exercises depleting the cell so what
happens is berberine and metformin trick
the cell actually they temporarily make
mitochondria not function as well
there's some studies on that and then
basically what that ends at doing is
like oh I'm out of energy
I need to increase mitochondria and
that's one of the ways at berberine and
metformin work plus Lauren blood glucose
yam and this this stuff gets complicated
really really fast all right got a
little easier question here this one is
from Selena Ryan what do you guys do if
you stall on the diet how do you get
back on track great question
I think incorporating in I'm one of the
first ways is incorporating in like
intermittent fasting so I think when you
stall look at your meal frequency are
you eating for fives when we were in the
bodybuilding days you're eating eight to
ten meals a day look at your meal
frequency and see how you can cut that
back and then also have a protein up we
were talking about this a little bit
earlier z' is increase your protein
right that we call like a cheat day have
a day where you're you're increasing
your protein you're not blowing it out
and having a ton of carbohydrates and
then you feel like crap for the next
week you're increasing your protein kind
of get things back up and then get back
right back into it the next day those
are two hacks I found that for me there
is no one I found it here's my perfect
macro ratios and now I'm you know home
free
it is a constantly evolving changing
dynamic so I'm sometimes tweaking my fat
intake and
bringing it up or down sometimes my
protein intake so it varies from week to
week if I do ever get stalled out I'll
occasionally do like a three-day fast it
kind of resets everything you did a
recent one and had a really good
experience and then get right back into
it and everything seems to be up and
running again so in ways of avoid
stalling or possibly calorie cycling
which I guess fat and intermittent
fasting is a way to calorie cycle
efficiently so area studies where that
prevents you from stalling and I'll say
cheat less right so and I don't use
cheat like is a bad word it's just the
nomenclature that people use especially
in the bodybuilding world where I came
up and all this stuff where it so I used
to to give you an idea I used to do epic
cheated and these are hilarious where if
in fact anybody out there oh yes if you
want to turn a random Tuesday into
Christmas morning all you have
to do is starve yourself for five or six
days leading up to it and then
allow yourself to eat anything you want
for that day I would wake up at like and
this was back when I used to sleep a lot
I would wake up at like 4:00 or 5:00 in
the morning just like giddy cuz it was
my Saturday cheat day I once my wife
called me she's like where are you and I
was waiting outside the Cheesecake
Factory waiting for them oh yeah and we
used to just buy like an unimaginable
amount of food and it was it was awesome
now I would take two steps forward and
then one-point-nine back and so it was
very slow gains so you can make
adjustments like that all right we're
gonna have to wrap really soon so I want
a rapid fire through a couple of these
questions let's go
where'd it go here we go perfect Alex
Cashman would you recommend a ketogenic
diet for a teenager with an active
lifestyle I think it ultimately depends
on their goal one of the things that we
are talking about is anyone that's
involved in contact sports right now
there's a huge need for protecting kids
brains in any kind of contact sport one
of the things that we know is that
ketones are a very good fuel to for
neural protection purposes ketones the
front literal head trauma
head trauma big-time and I think
especially football we're seeing it
develop more in NFL players now but if
that's a concern for athletes at that
age I absolutely think that providing
that sorts of fuel to help protect their
brain is essential and you also get into
a habit of eating less carbs just start
with that as a teenager it's like you
know things that are loaded with gluten
and grains try to get into a habit of
eating less of those things probably is
the teenager you're very efficient in
using glucose right now so you wouldn't
have to be too worried about it but as
you get older you're gonna want to have
develop those habits already so you
don't the kind of stuff from scratch and
it's interesting that what the
individuals who are younger actually you
can use fat better and it seems as we
ate and I think it's because people are
eating carbs throughout all youth that
program to be able to use fat turns off
so they actually might be more easily
adaptable to keto Jack dieting that's
interesting yeah very interesting all
right we've got one all answer very
quickly so we can sneak one more in so
this is from Brandon Kearney can you
give Sam
they have eating utilizing a 16 to 8
ratio fast with the keto diet what he
means by that is keeping your eating
into an eight-hour window so that your
intermittent fasting intermittent
evening over a 16 hour period so you go
without eating I'm gonna do that right
now so I'm right now documenting
everything that I eat for the next week
so people can see last week I was high
protein over the weekend I was very high
calorie so I came in today with a point
one ketone reading I'm gonna be taking
blood glucose and ketone readings all
week and I'm literally Instagram
storying everything that I eat we're
gonna release it as a mini doc so people
can watch me get into ketosis you'll see
me use that I'm not doing it yet because
I want to get into ketosis first before
I do it so it's not painful because it's
actually really easy to do once you're
fully keto adapted all right here's
another short one that I have zero
answers to but this is from Jay Neil is
there a recommended keto app to manage
the diet on a daily basis talking about
them I don't think there's a good one
yet but hopefully here in the near
future
all right well that was nice a couple in
development but there's really nothing
that quite delivers on what you would
want that to do so there's something
coming cool this is from sabe seeing our
supplements such as protein shakes BCAAs
pre workouts okay to take on the keto
diet I'd say in context I say it just
make sure that you have everything else
nailed down I mean coming from the
bodybuilding world people think oh you
need to take BCA's before your workout
slug down protein after it doesn't need
to be that way when you're on a
ketogenic diet I'd say if you're gonna
have a shake like one of the meals that
all have is all fast until the afternoon
and just have an enormous shake with
protein and fat in it put a ton of MC
T's in it and it fills me up till my
next meal yeah cool cool little fact
that we did with our research we found
it like when your keto and you take B
CAS basically protected BCA's from being
burnt up and so they rise up higher in
the blood so you may actually need less
that's ranged yeah and would they be
muscle sparing yeah muscle sparing and
I'll say that if I take my protein up
too high it'll kick me out of ketosis so
the the amount of individual variability
in diet is absolutely obscene and this
is coming from a guy who if you'd asked
me five to seven years ago I would have
said that they're just universal laws
and that if everybody did the same thing
he'd be absolutely fine and then I
discovered not only ketosis but the
microbiome which we haven't even
gotten a chance to talk about you want
to talk about individual variability it
is crazy so you have to take everything
that you learn with not a grain of salt
because it's people really relaying what
they what they know which may have come
from a study or even in these guys case
studies that they're actually doing
themselves but then you have to try it
out on yourself and it's pretty crazy
I'm sure you guys have read wired to eat
by Rob Wolfe alright so in that book he
talks about somebody who would have a
lower glucose spiked to a cookie than
they did to a banana and then other
people that have somebody else both
eating the same thing check our blood
glucose way different blood glucose
response on the other person's vs. me
and it's the same piece of fruit so
weird it's so weird so there's just a
ton of variability you guys
unfortunately there's no easy answer you
can have to test this all for yourself
all right before we wrap just real fast
tell everybody individually where they
can find you and then definitely you to
tell them what they're gonna find when
they get there because you have one of
the most interesting feeds in the world
and while I I won't say that nobody is
matching what you're doing I'll say it's
really rare so it's pretty special well
thanks so I really appreciate you Tom we
the muscle PhD is one of our instagrams
the muscle PhD and basically like we try
and take we try and take make things
easier basically where we take all that
hardcore scientific information and put
it into English right so I talked to
yemeni earlier today you know like when
you know foods product is just like oh
it's heaven you just experience it well
science the only people that can
understand scientists or other
scientists we want the information to
just be experienced just download it
right like the matrix I don't like you
talk to that that's why we love your
show and then I always introduce right
so Ryan on his Instagram he his middle
name is Patrick right so it's Ryan P
Larry but I say Ryan plower II and he's
got like it's it's like it's a it's
honestly I love his Instagram because
basically he talks a lot about not just
about like diet and health but he else
talks about being an entrepreneur and I
think that's huge but Ryan flowery and
you know it's a lot of it's to is the
community I mean surrounding yourself
with the right people I love
sharing content from other people and
really spreading the word of positivity
and making it so we live in such a world
that's centered around negativity it's
like well if you get the right people
around you you can kind of reverse that
and bring up positivity and make it
louder right yeah I definitely bought
both of these guys and I've learned a
lot from both of your accounts the
muscle PhD in particular like all the
infographics you guys are doing are
super helpful I was telling you earlier
I went to catalog though so they're easy
to retrieve but they're answering some
of the most intriguing and basic
questions that we may have all pondered
like you've all heard like cinnamon
supposedly helps to regulate blood sugar
is that actually true well they've done
the test and it is true so like little
things like that that you kind of wonder
whether or not they're legit you can get
those answers there but anyway
definitely follow you guys
- keto underscore head so keto head and
what you can expect to see on my
Instagram accounts is all the keto foods
that I eat for the most parts a bunch of
young your keto foods a lot of food porn
but I've done a lot more of the beach a
lot of life as well but expect to see a
lot more I'm excited to get involved
with the community that's been building
there like you mentioned there is so
much positivity so many great questions
so much to learn you guys to follow me
now know that I love to engage and if
not discovered yet jump on board and
happy to chat with you ice love it
alright guys as you know building the
studio is really my attempt to get
people out of the matrix and the more
that I research this and honestly the
more that I was dealing with what Lisa's
been going through the more I was
learning about the gut brain connection
and the more the truth of the situation
of you know my two biggest things in
life are the mind and the body and the
dual pandemics and I used to think that
they were connected but essentially
separate and now I'm realizing hey
there's really no separation between the
two so we're going to be going really
hard on health
content with this show that's in beta
but I'd love to know what you guys think
he'll theory let us know what you think
of the ones that we've done so far what
you'd like to see in the future that
would be really really incredible we'll
be doing them live we'll also post them
later on YouTube be sure to check that
out we'll do clips on Facebook all the
normal stuff that we do so thank you
guys so much for joining us
be sure to follow these guys I'm telling
you that their stuff is absolutely
amazing and if you haven't already be
sure to subscribe and until next time my
friends be legendary
take care
you